Emily Hennig-Glyph, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Oh, hold on.
Great to have you here.
I thought I had put my stuff into silence mode,
but no, I have not.
I did, but apparently not enough.
Anyway, so good to have you here on the show.
And I'm super excited about talking about
running Python in production.
And I'm glad that it's more than just one of you,
because I think everyone has their own perspective
and their own context and whatnot.
Do you work for a small company or a large company
or do you have many people on the team or just a couple?
And I think that really influences
what you might cover,
some of the decisions you might make and so on.
But before we get to that,
let's just start off with a little bit of background.
Emily, it's been a while since you've been on the show.
Maybe tell people a bit about yourself.
- Yeah, absolutely.
This is painful.
We actually have a new website
that we're gonna be launching soon.
So it's fun to see the brand.
- And here I'm showing your old one.
No, it looks great.
It looks good.
Nice picture of you there.
- Thanks.
Yep, so I'm Emily Morehouse.
I am the director of engineering at CuddleSoft.
We are a digital product development company.
So we kind of touch on anything from web, mobile,
IOT, DevOps, we really touch the whole stack
and get to work with a lot of different industries.
And then I also am a Python core developer
and the PyCon chair for this year.
- Yeah, you just happened to grab that role
right when COVID hit and conferences got insanely complicated
and uncertain.
How did you juggle all that?
- Yeah, it was a really big bummer,
I think because PyCon is really such an important piece
of our community and getting to see people in person
and connect on a regular basis.
But of course we wanted to do the thing
that was gonna keep everyone the most safe.
So kind of last minute going online
and then doing a full online conference
and then still hoping that things will settle down this year
so that in-person is something
that feels very safe for us to do.
But I was grateful.
I actually wound up staying on for this third year as chair
just so I could have that sort of like last hurrah
of actually getting to be in person.
Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, I hope so.
Awesome.
Well, thanks for all your hard work on it,
even if we didn't get to meet in Pittsburgh.
- Thanks.
- Yeah, you bet.
Glyph, you wanna go next?
Tell people about yourself.
- Yeah, well, I'm Glyph.
I am probably best known for Twisted.
I've worked on a variety of production Python environments
in my career.
I am currently in the process of exploring some options for something independent, all
of which are secret and I can't really say anything about here yet.
Most recently of pilot.com.
They are a fantastic company and I'd very much recommend people work there.
And we also ran a ton of Python in production over there.
So I'm sure that folks in the Python podcasting space
have probably heard me occasionally before.
So I won't belabor my introduction.
- Yeah, sounds good.
Well, good to have you here again.
Henrik, welcome, welcome.
- Yes, thank you for having me.
I think more or less my first Python podcast in my life.
(laughing)
- Well, it's awesome to have you.
You do so much writing and you have such an influence on
through like conferences and presentations.
You should definitely be here.
So it's long overdue.
Welcome.
- That's great to hear
because I don't think about it like myself,
but so I'm Hinek.
I work for a smaller posting company.
We are like a traditional web poster.
I've been working there for now like 14 years,
which is a very long time,
which is like a thousand years
in Silicon Valley time, I think.
And everything I do, I do in Python, basically.
They're like from web services to simple web pages.
over proxies, applications, you name it,
we use Python for it.
- Oh, fantastic.
Do you like control VMs and provision VMs and stuff
and that kind of thing?
Or what type of work are you doing?
- We are more on the, no, we don't sell VMs.
We don't sell anything where you can have root on it.
So we are selling a platform basically.
- Got it.
Mostly PHP, like it's, it is what it is.
- Yeah, sure.
At least you can control it all in Python.
- Yeah.
- Well, fantastic.
And so the reason we're all here today actually is
it's your fault Henrik.
- Yes. - Sort of.
So you wrote this article back about a year ago.
- Yeah, check the date.
- Yeah, I know.
But we've been talking about getting the four of us together
for a while, haven't we?
It's been a bit of a journey.
So we didn't mean for it to be that long,
but I don't think there's anything that is dated about this.
So it's totally fine.
- What I meant is that it was like right before Corona.
I was writing this article on my phone
while listening to a podcast in a van
going to a Husky farm in Finland.
- A Husky farm, like the dogs?
- Yeah, yeah, I did the husky safari basically,
like riding a husky sled, mushing.
- Yeah, sounds interesting.
- It was, it was my last trip before Corona,
which makes it kind of funny
because I talk about conferences later on, which yeah.
- Yeah, that kind of got put on hold,
but well, we can replace it with things like this
in other conversations.
So in this article, you talked about,
the title is Python in Production.
Of course, we'll link to it in the show notes.
and you said you were missing a key part
from the public Python discourse
and would like to help change that.
Basically, we should have more conversations
about running in productions.
So let me see if I get this right.
You're a huge proponent of microservices.
Everything should just be a bunch of small microservices
and everyone else is doing it wrong?
I'm just kidding, you actually take a different view
than that, but we're gonna go through,
you know, sort of some of the themes in your article,
some of the other ones out there,
And then also just all of us talk about
sort of what we're doing in production,
some of the considerations and trade-offs.
So a lot of fun there.
I think, you know, let's talk about cloud computing first.
I'll pick one of these out of here
and then we can touch on the whole
microservice monolith thing as well.
So, you know, Glyph, I'll just pick you.
We have this trade-off, right?
we could go and create a VM, set up our own system,
and it's totally portable, could run in a data center,
it could run in the cloud or whatever,
or we could go all in with Lambda
and other very specialized services tied to AWS
or to Azure or whatever.
What are your thoughts on this whole
running in the cloud story?
- So, I mean, there's as many dimensions to that question
as there are services in AWS,
which is to say like a higher order than ALF null infinity.
- Exactly.
- But the way that I look at that question
is you have to look at each service kind of one at a time.
And the way that I would generally suggest people decide
whether or not it's a good idea
to adopt a particular service
has to do with the way that their operational footprint
how it works in terms of overhead.
So for example, should you run your own Postgres
or should you use RDS?
Almost always you should just use RDS
because the operational footprint of that is
Amazon configures and manages
the tremendous complexity of operating
a relational data store in production.
And when you need to set that up for development,
because like part of production
and having a development environment that matches closely enough that it works well,
and that you can test things and know for sure that you're getting adequate test coverage,
is you can just run a Postgres Docker container.
And functionally, for your infrastructure, it's probably the same.
You rarely need to do deep configuration that is meaningful to your application
between your local development Postgres container and your RDS instance.
as that slider moves further and further towards like,
well, actually our data store configuration
is really part of our application.
Well, actually we need to like tune things very closely.
Even running your own data store might make sense.
That's a pretty unusual circumstance,
but that you can look at that for other aspects
of your platform as well.
Routing, like load balancing, caching,
is that part of your app?
Do you care about it in development?
If it breaks in an interesting way,
is that going to take you down?
And look at each of those issues for each cloud service.
How expensive is it gonna be for you
to replicate it in development?
And how accurate is that reflection going to be
of what's in production?
And always try to pick the answer
that is the lowest overhead
for your particular team configuration.
That said, the tricky part is this changes
as your team grows.
and as your service gets more complex.
One of the things that I imagine
I'm gonna touch on a few times is that
probably the most interesting
Python and production experience I had
was running pilot.com's application,
which started in a very different place than it ended up.
And I'm very happy with the way that that went,
but we started in an incredibly like super macro service,
just one big Python container and like nothing else
towards picking up application load balancers and lambdas
and all kinds of other stuff
that eventually became part of that infrastructure
as the team grew and we had more
of a dedicated infrastructure, like operational footprint
that we could actually manage because it was staffed.
- Yeah, yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
It definitely changes as your team changes.
Emily, what do you think?
What's your view on this?
How much of the cloud should you bite off
and where's the trade-offs?
- Yeah, I agree with a lot of the things that Glyph said.
I think that once you get to the point
where you're adding complexity
to your local development environment,
that's usually a red flag for me.
And you have to be doing something
that gives you a lot of value.
So for example, we'll use like Firestore
as an offline database for mobile applications.
And whether you're using that or you're using CouchDB,
whatever choice you're making there, you're going to have some sort of added complexity locally.
So yeah, I totally agree with like, RDS is a really easy swap. And if it's RDS on AWS, or
moving to GCP or Heroku or whatnot, your portability between those different ecosystems
is going to be pretty straightforward. But if you want to rewrite your Lambda functions to use
cloud run instead. It's not just a drag and drop sort of thing.
Right. You don't just page a connection string and now it's all good again.
Yeah. And I think it's going to depend on where the company is at. Again, for us,
we're often looking at what our client needs. So if they're a client that doesn't have a technical
team that they just want to let this run on its own and they don't want to manage it,
That's going to impact whether we choose heroku or aws. so like really looking at where you're at now
And what sort of support you need in the future? I think is a big question to ask for sure
Which way does that gauge go for you if they are kind of hands-off and not super technical?
Do you give them heroku or what do you give them?
Yep. Yeah, if they're non-technical we give them heroku
um
If they are technical
Even then that kind of depends. Um
a lot of times it's AWS or GCP just kind of depending on what other pieces of the ecosystem that they need or
Since we work with a lot of existing tech companies a lot of times they say hey
We are a GCP company or an AWS company and then we just say cool we can do either
Right, and if they're already there you might as well just keep going with that, right?
Yeah, definitely, but I will say that like
95% of the time anything that's like
web application or API based, it's going to be in a Docker container anyway, just to give
us that portability.
Sure. Henrik, thoughts?
I have very, very little first-hand experience with cloud services because we use none.
We use...
It would be kind of odd for a cloud hosting company to use somebody else's cloud. Although
I know that people are doing it. It totally happens, right?
Yeah.
reselling the big clouds.
That's true.
Yeah.
We run our own hardware in own cages in a shared data center, like military grade.
I once almost got tasered because I took a photo from the outside.
Security came running immediately.
So the one thing we run outside is Sentry because that makes sense.
And I didn't want to run it anymore myself.
But there's also the thing that Europeans in general and Germans in particular are not
very excited when you put their data on other people's servers, particularly of US companies.
So often it is also like a competitive advantage for us to just say, our data literally does
not leave Berlin.
- Right, that's certainly something that here in the US
it's easy to kind of forget about, right?
Oh, these just, we think of, oh, it's just the big clouds.
Right, these are big cloud companies.
But really those are US cloud companies, right?
And if you're in Europe or somewhere else
that that's another angle to think about, right?
- Yeah, I have maybe one thing to add as a user
that as a user, I don't care that US East one is down.
But you will know, you'll still know.
Yeah, this is what I see happening, right? Like when people rely too much on cloud services,
that half of the internet is down when some...
...that many people are not talking about.
Yeah, for sure. So maybe we can wrap this up real quick,
but I do want to add just one thing. A roller out there in the audience says,
I prefer my $5 DigitalOcean VM and just my
MongoDB, Postgres, Python.
So how often do you think about, especially I guess,
how often do you think about price?
If you look at the price for AWS, it can add up.
And for some companies that doesn't matter, right?
Just having infrastructure is great.
But for others, maybe they don't have revenue yet
profitable and they're really trying to squeeze by.
Like where, where do you land on?
Like, let's save you some money.
We could do this for $10, but we're going to do it for 500 because it's the right
architecture to run this distributed thing.
You know, what are your thoughts?
What do you tell your customers?
Sure.
so I think the cost benefit often comes down to picking an ecosystem.
that's going to be super stable for them, where we can say,
"Hey, yeah, this is going to cost you a few hundred dollars a month,
but if you need somebody to step in and start to manage your system for you,
you know, a couple of developer hours will easily outshine their cost
for their cloud hosting."
So that kind of puts it in perspective.
A lot of these clients are already people who have spent multiple thousands,
you know, tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars
actually building their software in the first place. So as long as you're, you know, on
a much lower order of magnitude, you're typically okay.
Yeah, that's true. If you, especially if you're not technical, and you've got to hire someone
in to kind of fix it, then yeah, the sort of failure is a big problem.
One thing that I'd love to add on to that is, well, two things. First of all, on the
the notion of price and sort of related to which technologies you should use.
I think the question you constantly need to be asking is really never
ask about one side of the equation.
Never ask about features or price.
You always want to be looking at a price performance ratio and that
performance shouldn't necessarily, in fact, usually should not be like
metrics like gigabytes or, you know, throughput or anything like that.
you should be looking at, do you need what the product offers?
And what is it going to save you time on?
So like when Emily says, if it's going to save you development
time, that is gold.
You always want to go err on the side of saving development
time.
Developers are very expensive.
We're very finicky.
And anything that you develop, you also need to maintain.
So one of the big benefits of cloud services
is think of that price not just in terms of development cost,
but are you going to need to maintain it?
And on the flip side, do you need this thing at all?
Quite like Hinnick was talking about having,
just not using cloud at all,
and yet he successfully develops
and deploys many services in production
and they all seem fine.
And so I think that there's often kind of this
tool obsession where we look at features, features, features
and assume that features equals benefits,
but features are only benefits to you if you need them.
If you don't need them, they're additional costs.
you have to learn stuff about every single one
of those features.
The time your developers spend learning the surface
of the AWS API is a cost you have to think about.
And so like it's quite often just better
to not use the cloud,
'cause it's cheaper to not figure it all out
if you know how expensive it's gonna be
in your own infrastructure.
- Or as Emily pointed out, if it's in a Docker container,
you may run it in the cloud now,
but it's fairly portable and not super tied to it.
Paul Everett out in the audience has a quick question.
He says, "We talk about pinning dependencies to control change.
But when we talk about cloud computing, we say let things like AWS handle it.
You know, you're sort of, that's kind of a dependency on their
compatibility of each one of those services you take on.
What do you think about
the stability of those APIs and those services over time?"
I think Azure maybe is a little more
changing than AWS, you know, things come and go, but still,
it's something to consider, right? It's another thing you've got to deal with churn on, I guess.
Yeah, and I think it depends on like how quickly you're jumping on new services.
So we actually started using ECS right after it was released, and it's come a long way since then.
and both like the product and our proficiency has come a long way. So I think that
taking any sort of like new service with a heavy dose of skepticism and making sure that it's
something that is really stable, that's going to fulfill the need, it's an important thing to look
at. Yeah, that's a really good point. All right, let's move on. We touched on this enough, I think.
Let's talk about microservices.
I was joking with Henik about that at the beginning.
So we have this spectrum.
We can have just one code base,
one process that runs in microWZG or gunicorn or whatever,
or we could have a little flask API
that does user management and login,
another part that does, you know, the catalog or whatever.
We have a bunch of these little services, these microservices,
and then put them all together.
I have thoughts on this, but where are your thoughts
across this?
Who wants to jump in?
Just go first.
Like anybody?
Yes, you.
Go for it.
OK, sorry.
My opinion at this point is, I think, quite public.
I think you should start with a monolith first
for this simple reason that microservices come with a lot of adjacent complexity,
which we basically just talked about with cloud services, right? Like, you cannot have
microservices without service discovery, you cannot have microservices without tracing,
because every error becomes like, I thought it was called a distributed murder mystery.
And you're trying to find the fault of it.
There's things that people don't think about, like retries need to be kept.
Otherwise, you're gonna get exponential growth and you denial service yourself and stuff like that.
And so I mean, it's a general good idea to have as few moving parts as possible,
which already someone said about cloud computing.
And because more moving parts are always harder to make reliable, right?
And Martin Fowler calls it the microservice premium, which I like.
And it's again, it's a trade-off.
Is this premium worth it to you?
And I think you need a lot more experience to make this trade-off than many people think.
That's my experience.
You probably start simple and then with just two or three pieces, and then you end up with 20 and you're like, well, how do we get here?
Yeah, yeah, and they don't really know why, right? Like people want boundaries.
Like I cannot speak for huge teams, because one of the peculiarities of my job is that our team is very small with a lot of responsibility.
But there are big teams that have boundaries that do not come with a network partition.
So it's a trade off. And I think that most people need more experience to actually make this trade off.
Yeah, I would I very much agree with that. Particularly the people who tend to be asking this question are often asking it because they're at a small company, they have a small team, they saw a really cool white paper, or a presentation by somebody at Google and Netflix.
And they're like, wow, all this stuff about microservices sounds great.
Fault isolation and distributed tracing and, you know, use whatever language you
want.
And I'll get back to that one in a second.
and again, like I said before, you, you will need to think about everything
in terms of cost benefit and not just benefit.
And the folks at Google and Netflix are talking about 10,000 person teams.
And like, how do you manage complexity at that scale?
How do you deal with the problems that come with that type of organization?
And so asking, like, I also, even the shape of this debate has, has long
bothered me because the terms that we're using, right, do we, do we want
monoliths or microservices?
Asking that question is like saying, well, when we have a wheel, do we want it to be
like an 18 wheeler, like truck wheel?
or do we want it to be like one of those wheels that comes on like a micromachines car?
And the answer is, I don't, I don't know, like, what are you, what are you putting on the vehicle
that this wheel is going to be attached to? Like, it really depends. And for the question of
like, how big do you want your service to be? Which is, I think, a better question than do
you want a microservice or a monolith? It comes down to what is the surface area to volume ratio
of your team. It takes about 12 people to run a microservice, I would say, like a dozen
people per service is roughly what you should be thinking about. Plus, there's the fixed
overhead of a microservice architecture where you need service discovery and tracing and
logging and like a whole bunch of other stuff, which you probably need in today's modern
fancy cloud environment. If you're going to be able to leverage services like Honeycomb
CloudWatch and like, just manage all your logs and not have to deal with that yourself.
Then you're talking about maybe a six person team that can just do infra.
And if you are at a three person startup and thinking, huh, that sounds like a lot of people,
you want to model it.
You want one piece of code you can maintain because the benefit of having something like
a very fine grained microservice architecture is that you can say, we're going to have each
Each team own its little piece and we're going to move a lot of the complexity of orchestrating
from code to configuration because our operations team can like deal with the configuration
and manage their process around testing configurations.
But if you're a small development team, you want code you can write unit tests for.
You want code that you can run and understand the way that you run and understand everything
else.
you push everything into YAML files and INI files and cloud APIs.
What is your development environment look like anymore?
How do you test those changes?
Like,
right, even developing on your own machine becomes tricky.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
And I think the big takeaway is that the team needs to match what microservices are optimized for.
Yeah, exactly.
Really good point.
Emily, I suspect the people you suggest use Heroku probably are not receiving 10 microservices.
Over there. Are they?
No, definitely not. I think one of the things that we typically have built in is a certain
amount of ability to scale independently. And so we typically do have two different
workers on Heroku. So we're going to have, you know, a Django application and a Celery
task worker. And then we know that we can kind of scale those two independently. But
that's where we really see the division of load.
So that's my lens that I look at monolith
versus microservices with is really,
do I need to scale them independently?
- Yeah, and I certainly think having some kind of,
we're gonna kick off the long running work over there.
So it's not happening as part of a web request.
That certainly makes sense.
Even things just like sending a group of people an email.
It often takes too long if the group is large enough
before the request will timeout and wreck your servers
and all sorts of stuff.
So yeah.
- Yep, definitely.
But I think developer experience is a really big one.
We have had the pleasure of working with
another like very large tech company,
like multiple hundreds of employees
and they had a monolithic Rails app.
And it was absolute hell to work with as a developer
because you're constantly having hundreds of PRs open at a time.
You open a PR and within 20 minutes,
you have a merge conflict with somebody else.
And you really, at that point,
it makes sense from a developer perspective too
to be able to divide it up and say, "Okay, this is your area of expertise.
This is your area of expertise."
And at least set up those partitions.
But you can do that in a monolith as well.
It just takes a little bit of awareness
and slicing the problem a little differently.
Yeah. So let me think of a, let me throw out an idea that I just thought of that I'm not sure I'm advocating this or even that is a good idea.
But one of the problems you have is sort of you have this big monoliths like you were touching on Emily is a lot of people are changing the same bits of code.
And they're kind of in all over the place. So the microservices is one way to solve that problem.
What about trying to think about,
could we package up some of the functionality
of what our application does or area
into Python packages that we can then install
and use in the main app?
Bad idea, good idea?
- I mean, it's interesting,
but it's also another level of complexity, right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Got to run your own private server or something.
- I would actually say that that is a prerequisite
to microservices. Specifically, one of the things that people often forget about the
whole service architecture thing, and this comes down to the, if you remember, I said
I was going to talk about choose your own language kind of thinking before. One of the
things that people often choose microservice architecture for badly is this idea that they
want to experiment with different programming languages because they want to use the right
tool for the right job. And number one, just the cognitive overhead of jumping between
Haskell and OCaml and Python and Rust, like on your back end is like, way, way higher
than most people think. But even forgetting about the sort of human cognitive overhead,
your service architecture, your service fabric needs to be logging and recording metrics
and dealing with load balancers and dealing with data stores in a consistent way. And
That task by itself is complex enough
that you probably need a library,
which means every supported language in your environment
needs to have packages installed
that are maintained by your infrastructure team
and not by your application teams.
And that means before you can even think
about microservices, you have to be able
to split your workflow into multiple
different package repositories,
different source control, different teams, different CI.
Like you need to be able to do that first
before you can reasonably split things across
like multiple actual services.
That doesn't necessarily mean you need to like
not have a quote unquote monolith
because you can put a monorepo
into that kind of multiple package,
multiple library workflow and that's also fine,
but you do need to be able to have multiple work streams
going that end up in the same service package.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Another thing is versioning across the services, right?
the definition, like if you're using SQLAlchemy,
the user shape has to match all the parts
that talk to the database that might touch a user object
or something like that.
So I guess I'll wrap it up with a quick thought
that for me, microservices feel like I'm trading code
and developer complexity for operational
and DevOps complexity.
And I personally feel much more comfortable managing
and working with code complexity
than like infrastructure complexity.
But if like your team and your organization
It's all about managing infrastructure complexity
in DevOps and you have a bunch of junior devs,
maybe microservices make sense.
I don't know.
It kind of depends, but my vote's for the monolith side
because I'd rather manage the software complexity.
Yeah.
All right, let's talk about security.
I mean, we've had some crazy stuff.
I think it's a log for Jmean.
There's a .com.
I think that is a .com.
- Yeah, so like security is clearly on the,
(laughs)
it's something we always have to think about,
but something, right, that recently Log4J
obviously being a Java and not Python thing,
but it's the one thing that makes me nervous
about running stuff in production, honestly, right?
We've got stuff like a status cake
or various other things that you can fire up
or uptime or whatever that will tell you
if your site is down and send you notifications
and things like that.
But the security one is a little bit scary.
So how do you approach thinking about this?
Henrik, maybe you go first.
Hosting other people's code is like a next level.
It's like meta security.
Yeah.
The one flag I want to wave here is defense in depth,
which is something that's very dear to my heart,
and which I feel is--
Yeah, which could be a bit more popular.
Because every significant attack nowadays is a multi-stage one.
It doesn't matter if it's like owning your Chrome
or owning a server.
It's usually multiple stages.
So you shouldn't make it as hard as possible to the attackers,
even though they have entered your infrastructure
at this point.
So for me, it means that I treat our own network, which
is very private.
You need a VPN to get in and everything, as if it had intruders inside it.
And that's our standard.
So you should hash your passwords as the maintainer of Argon2 CFFI, of course, using Argon2, but
use whatever.
We use TLS even in private networks, because I know that cloud providers have virtual LANs,
which are also often encrypted, but still, it's just another layer.
And you cannot have enough layers to protect yourself at this point,
because if someone intrudes you, you don't want them to sniff passwords
out of your traffic and things like that.
- Yeah, absolutely. - The list goes on.
Yeah, it definitely does.
Emily?
Security thoughts?
Yeah, luckily, this isn't one that we've necessarily had to worry too much about.
I think the worst thing that's happened for us is a DDoS attack, and that's about it.
So for me, I think definitely staying on top of dependency management, keeping things up
to date, which is not necessarily always the easiest thing, especially the Python 2.3 transition,
upgrading Django is sometimes a little bit more complex than you'd want it to be.
But I think that getting those security updates and making sure that you're on an LTS version
is really important.
- LTS being long-term support, yeah, absolutely.
- Yep.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
So one of the things that I think,
you know, I made the,
I was picking on the log4j thing,
but one of the problems that made this a little bit harder,
I mean, this is gonna be something
we live with for a long time.
It's gonna be a nightmare, but the consequences of it.
But one of the problems was that the fixed version
of log4j, which for those who didn't know,
the log4j problem is if you can basically get a server
to print a message with any of your input,
like this URL was invalid or this email tried to log in
and failed, you can own the computer,
which is really, really bad.
So it has to be fixed like straight away.
But the problem was the fixed version was on a newer version
like Java 8.
So if you were running Java 7,
you had to both not just upgrade your library,
but then upgrade your whole runtime,
which might be problematic.
So, Emily, that makes me think that,
you know, you probably, one of the good rules to go by
is don't let your frameworks get too far out of date.
You don't have to be on the latest Django,
but don't stay on Django 1
when Django 4 is about to be released.
Or don't stay on Python 3.6
when you could be on the new one or something like that?
How do you all feel about that?
- Yeah, and I think that like looking at it
from an open source maintainer's perspective,
making sure that you have the ability
to kind of hotfix previous versions
and be very clear about which versions you're supporting
and which ones you're not.
That way you make it easy for a user to know like,
yeah, I'm not gonna get the security update
and I need to upgrade and have that done ahead of time
to stay on top of things.
- Yeah.
Henrik or Glyph, old frameworks, what do you think?
- So, I mean, I think that this is a,
I don't think I can find this right away,
but I remember one of my more popular tweets
was one of those sort of two buttons memes
where the guy can't choose.
And on one side you've got get owned
because your dependencies are out of date
and you have no way to immediately update them
or get owned because you're automatically updating
from an upstream that you don't know
if you can trust or not.
And that's kind of,
so the way that I sort of split that difference in practice
is you really want to make sure that
it's not just about like regularly upgrading
because you can always say like,
oh yeah, we'll regularly upgrade,
but you've only got a fixed budget for security, right?
it's possible to spend all of your time spinning your wheels trying to increase the cost for
attackers across every possible access.
Sorry, access.
And I like what you got to ship features and deliver stuff.
That's really exactly such a balance.
Yeah.
Thinking about Hennig's suggestion of defense in depth, the way that I like to think about
that is you want to raise the bar to a certain minimal level in a bunch of different areas
and then not get too obsessed with getting that last 5% of security on each possible access.
So for dependencies, the way that I think about that is have the, you know,
very widely available automation that already does this stuff like Dependabot.
Make sure you are getting those PRs automatically.
Pin everything so that you're never dealing with a library upgrade in the middle of feature
your library upgrade work should always be,
I am upgrading this library now.
And 90% of the time, if you have that set up,
where you've got a build that is running on every PR
that builds your whole dependency structure,
that's got everything pinned and hashes pinned
and everything, and then is also regularly receiving
these PR updates, most attackers who are doing things
with supply chain attacks aren't all that clever.
And so they will just end up trying to pop your CI
and you'll see that, you'll get some kind of error.
You'll probably notice.
Not necessarily, attackers can be very sophisticated,
but like you wanna have everything,
every library running in your nicely isolated CI environment
on your GitHub actions or whatever first.
And again, you want those changes to all be like
same code with the old dependency,
same code with the new dependency.
And every so often you'll get one very expensive upgrade
that you really gotta do and you gotta make time for.
But if you're not upgrading all the super easy,
almost free, like just hit the green button
on the PR that's working,
if you're not doing that all the time,
then when you do get to those big upgrades,
you will be upgrading 50 dependencies at a time.
- Yeah, it's gonna be rough, yeah.
- Yeah, you really need to think about the cost to you
as the defender.
And the way that you reduce that cost
on dependency upgrades is spending just a little bit
of time every week, tending that automation
and looking for those upgrades that are really gonna take
some development work.
And there are fewer than you might think.
Like quite often feels like a really big task
because most people get stuck in this,
oh no, it's time to do the dependency upgrades this quarter
and you have like a seven week project
that you're like trying to figure out which dependency
is the one that's making all your tests fail.
And you're like changing 50 lines
and your requirements.txt all at once.
If you don't do that,
and by the time you're upgrading the one library
that really does have a big breaking API change,
it's not actually that hard,
as long as everything else is already up to date.
- Yeah, and usually there's one or two libraries
that are massive, like Django or Flask.
And then it's all the little dependencies
that probably require no effort on your part.
So one other thing that I switched to,
you talked about dependabot, which is really great.
I have Dependabot turned on for my stuff,
but I started using pip compile,
where it'll go and basically you give it an in file
and it'll build your requirements.txt,
and it'll even say like, this thing is here
because it depends, you installed Flask,
that's why it's dangerous, is here, for example.
And I really like having that 'cause it's just,
this week I'll go and I'll run it
and it'll tell me what the new requirements are.
I'm actively knowing that's happening,
and I'll sort of process it and go with it.
What do you all think?
Emily, are you using Dependabot or something else?
- Yeah, we do use Dependabot.
I think another interesting like integral piece
of being able to upgrade your dependencies
is having tests that give you the confidence that you can.
So do you feel confident to say,
yes, our upgraded dependencies passed our test suite,
therefore we can upgrade,
or is there something that is gonna require somebody else
and go in and look at it.
But yeah, I think we've come a really long way
in terms of dependency management.
I do not miss the giant requirements.txt files
that had all the dependencies of dependencies
of dependencies all the way down
and you didn't know what you had installed
versus another library.
- Yeah, exactly.
- I also like things like pip compile
because it lets you have a little bit more control
over the child dependencies
versus relying on a top level library like Django
to specify their own requirements
in a way that works for your organization.
- Yeah, cool.
Henrik?
- Oh yeah, we use pip-tools too.
I've blogged about it at some point
that I like this approach with having small sharp tools
that work well and pip-tools is one of them.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So I also use Dependabot, like I said,
and if you go and run pip-tools,
and then you commit that back to the repo,
Dependabot will notice that that's been upgraded
and it will automatically close the PR.
So there's kind of a nice match between them as well.
- Yeah, the answers to all these questions
are really so much simpler than they used to be,
you know, five, six years ago.
I've been using requires.io for probably almost a decade
and Dependabot is much better,
largely because it defaults
to just sending you those individual upgrades
and you can really tune how much stuff
that's gonna try to do it once.
So yeah, mostly the answer on this is like,
make something that builds your Docker container
or whatever your fully realized application artifact is,
run it all the time and have part of that process be like,
freeze your dependencies, pin everything.
You need to make sure that everything is pinned
so that you get very reliable, repeatable builds.
But having done that,
you can really just bask in the cornucopia of tools
that we have available to do this now
that make it all pretty easy.
- Yeah, it's definitely getting easier and easier.
Let's talk about performance a little bit.
I guess maybe I'll show just really quickly,
I'll throw out there that at sneak.io,
as in YK.io, they've got some stuff where you can put in
like a package or something like that.
Let's see.
I don't remember where you...
where you go to do it, but you can basically put in like a Python package,
it'll give you a security report for it. So that's,
I don't know how accurate that turns out to be for everything, but it's,
it's something, but let's talk about performance.
And one thing I'd like to touch on is actually,
can we just say one more thing about security before we move on?
Because a Henek mentioned encryption and not trusting your local network at the
beginning. And one other thing I wanted to mention,
speaking of tools that are much better than they used to be,
One popular idiom is to like have a production mode that has all your encryption on and a development mode where you like just turn it all off for convenience.
And I'm a big fan of setting up like an entry in your hosts file for each developer and having some infrastructure for provisioning certificates for individual developer machines.
So that encryption is just always on.
Nobody ever makes a connection without TLS on it.
Even your like local API stubs still have some kind of, TLS on them.
Because it's actually not all that hard, particularly with let's encrypt.
You get a couple of DNS plugins and you can easily vend those certificates to your dev team.
It takes a couple of days of work at most.
And, having done that, not only are you more secure because you just don't even have that switch
anymore to like accidentally be sending everything in plain text.
But also you spot a surprising number of configuration issues.
And like you get to see how you're like for real certificates work
while you're doing development.
And that can really help a lot of developers like understand what's going on
with the somewhat tricky world of of HTTPS.
All right. It's just running a little bit closer to production.
Yeah. Yeah.
All right. Let's talk about performance.
And I'll just put this up on the screen because I think it's a fun thing.
Have you all seen locust.io?
Yeah, we use it regularly for load testing.
Do you? Yeah. Maybe tell people about it real quick.
I've used it once or twice and it's fantastic.
Yeah, definitely. So it's a tool that allows you to essentially write a script
that will emulate requests to your server
and then you can give it a variety of...
Wow, mom brain with no sleep makes me forget words.
(laughing)
But basically just like different parameters
that you can specify.
So it makes it really easy to say like,
here is the approximate randomized behavior
for a single user,
and then scale it up to hundreds or thousands of users
and see how your server handles it.
- Right, you give it a Python script,
which is really interesting, right?
You create a class and you say,
here's a typical user of this type,
and it does different things like,
it'll call the index page, it'll call the about page,
it'll go do a search.
And you can say things like,
there's gonna be a certain amount of delay between pages.
And then you can, as you said, scale that up and say like,
I want 2,700 regular users and 50 admin users
and let them go crawl around on the site
and do what they do, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so super cool.
And the, like the real time dashboard is neat.
So if you want to know about your performance,
you could use this, but how do you all think
about performance before the apps,
either you're running or delivering,
what's fast enough, what's just wasting your time,
giving the last millisecond of response time?
- So I'm gonna make the bold statement
that for the vast majority of developers,
Python is fast enough.
- Oh yeah, absolutely.
It is fast enough to saturate a database.
And once your database is saturated,
you have different problems.
There's definitely things for which it is a problem.
Like you cannot saturate an LDAP server, for example.
I know that because I tried
and it's one of our go services.
But it would be nice if Python could be faster.
And I'm very excited about GDL's performance task force
at Microsoft, it's great.
But I feel like the indifference that the no-jill movement
has been shown, kind of shows that nobody really thinks
that intensively about it anymore.
Like for most people, it's fine.
It's not good, it's not great, it's fine.
And I mean, Instagram is printing money with it, so.
- They absolutely are.
Yeah, you know, you can go and put your site
into PageSpeed Insights and see what you get.
And yeah, I think once you get down
to several millisecond response time per page,
it just, you know, there's not a whole lot you can do
to make it faster.
There's not a lot of benefit to doing that work, right?
- It's mostly tuning a database with the right indexes
and caching, that's the two things.
- Yeah.
- And everything else is like the last 10% or something.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Well, what I wanted to definitely emphasize here
and hear your thoughts,
I feel like there's so many times I go to some page
and doesn't necessarily, some site,
doesn't necessarily have to be Python.
It's just some database fact page.
And you go there and it's sitting on
what seems like one of their primary pages.
And it's like five seconds till it responds
or several seconds even.
It's like, what is this thing doing?
And I just, I know they don't have indexes in their database.
They just, they can't.
So, you know, I just want to put out a plea for please use
like some database profiling feature.
Please look at your queries and please put an index.
That's so incredibly easy.
Like any of y'all want to rant on that with me?
- I need to bring up one tool before we talk about this
and it's called PG Mustard.
- Okay.
- Because I've never been able to fully understand
and explain statement.
Like I learned it many times and then I forgot it again.
And PG Mustard is amazing.
you just take an explain, you copy paste it into a web app
and it tells you exactly what's going wrong.
- Oh, nice.
- And I've shaved, like I had like one query
which is like very big, it's from a financial system.
And I've, I think like 66% of the current runtime
I was able to shave off.
- Yeah.
- Just because there was an index,
but it was set up wrong and it was amazing.
- Yeah, so here's a really beautiful visual thing.
And it's also a bit of like a profiler.
So it says on this part of the query statement,
you spent 0.4% of the time
and this part you spent 58% of the time.
- Yeah, it also tells you what to do.
That's the best part.
It doesn't just tell you what's in it,
but do this, make this index, things like that.
- Okay.
I've never seen this before.
This is fantastic.
Emily, thoughts on indexes?
Join my plea.
Yeah, I mean, so I think that piece of it is definitely very important, like making
sure that you're doing those sort of basic things to get you to that, you know, 80 to
90% performance potential.
But I would also argue that these days, in a vast majority of applications, you're going
to have a decoupled front end from your back end.
And I would argue that making sure that you're implementing best practices for user experience
on your front end is going to give you so much more payoff than trying to optimize that
API call by a few milliseconds.
So previously I had pulled up the PageSpeed Insights before, right?
And at pagespeed.web.dev from Google, I believe.
And what's really interesting about that is if you go and put your site into there, it
doesn't feel fantastic to do it, by the way.
So if you go and you put your site in here, you at some point might get a good number.
I'm getting 100 out of 100 on the TalkByThen training site right now, but that's because
I spent three days addressing every little thing.
Like this image is not sized right.
This JavaScript is not bundled with that JavaScript.
This element is being resized by the browser.
you should make it the same size by default
and just all of these little things.
And it wasn't even about the server response time,
which was always pretty low.
It's about all the other stuff.
It's like, how does it feel to the user to get to the page
rather than what is the HTML out of the server response time?
That's what you're talking about, right?
That kind of stuff?
- Yep.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
- Awesome, all right.
So I have so many feelings about this.
This is probably the number two topic for me behind packaging.
So yeah, so those of you not listening on the live stream,
if this next part sounds choppy, it's
because I talked for an hour and a half,
and Michael had to edit it down.
>> Just cut him off.
Just had to cut him off.
He lost his voice.
>> But seriously, the thing that I think is most important
is quite often the parts of your application that end up
being the performance issues are once you're past this step.
Now there are lots of like,
you all have been mostly talking about websites
except for Henek mentioning LDAP, which is an interesting.
- I've never really thought about scaling that one, no.
- I have also scaled LDAP.
And so the two major applications
that I've dealt with performance issues on
are an internal calendaring service
that I maintained a large company
that you can figure out which one it is
by reading my Wikipedia page.
And pilot.com's internal bookkeeping automations.
And in both of those, so number one,
the calendar service was an API with no front end.
The front end was maintained by the client teams
that were not even doing web stuff.
And the way that we had to performance test that
involved standing up our own custom load generation tool
and running it as kind of a qualification process for our deployments.
And the reason that I bring up that one is it's interesting because we had to figure out what our actual interesting load patterns were.
We couldn't use any of these like standard HTTP load generation things because we needed very specific data.
And that often ends up being the problem that you're facing.
We on that service in particular, we had performance problems that arose because we added too many
indexes.
So we were having problems on the right side of the equation, right?
Every time you add an index, you're, you're optimizing read at the expense of write.
And usually it's like a lot of read performance with that for a little write performance,
but eventually it does add up.
It does.
Yeah.
You can, you can go out in the audience says, yeah, you gotta be careful adding too many
indexes as well.
You know, there's two parts to that, right, Cliff?
One part is when you write something,
the indexes have to be computed for that thing that's
going in.
And the other is more indexes mean more stuff in memory.
And so another really important aspect
is, does the totality of your indexes reside in memory,
or does it have to get paged out?
And so you would hit that problem,
both of those problems, you would run into
by having too many indexes.
Right, and you really need to-- so you
need to be ready to measure things because you don't necessarily know.
Like, I mean, this is that, you know, old chestnut about, not really,
you know, premature optimization, not knowing what the hotspots are until you
run them, but that also means, so there's two things about that.
One, the tools for doing this are not great.
Like the one that I really wish were good and just isn't is speed center,
which, twisted and PII PII used to monitor their performance over time.
Like what's the performance of each revision of the code is.
And there's nothing like, you know, GitHub actions or Travis CI,
there's no sort of leader in that field that will just tell you like,
"Hey, your performance regressed by 10% on this commit."
And that is the tool which I desperately want to exist.
And so most of the things that I do are trying to approximate that.
Part of that is making sure you have metrics in production that are telling you
so that you notice when things are slow,
you don't want to be having users telling you or even really like,
If you're getting the bad performance metrics
out of your load testing tool,
and that's a surprise to you,
that means you're probably not instrumenting enough
in prod to know like,
oh, users are seeing some slowness here.
'Cause you're also gonna get things where like,
your database is doing great,
everything seems like it's super fast,
but your queries are actually really slow.
They're just all running in memory.
And then you hit the cliff
where suddenly you're hitting the disk.
And now everything's much, much slower
and none of your code changed.
And your data only grew by like 10%.
And being able to spot stuff like that means you have to be looking at perf in prod.
You can't do synthetic tests for everything.
And it's and particularly if you have a large site with a lot of users, it's very easy to miss if your, you know, 95th percentile is falling off a cliff, right?
Like you have to you have to be looking at at your core tiles and like all of these different things, not just like average performance.
And the second part of that is the data,
custom data generation for your synthetic tests.
So for example, on the,
so the calendar service had those issues
that I just mentioned and pilot service had this issue
where most of the performance stuff was not the database.
It was talking to APIs to pull in financial transactions
and analyze them.
And it was those APIs being slow,
us being silly and not talking to those APIs in parallel,
data volumes just being huge, like thousands and thousands and thousands of transactions,
excuse me, in a single call. And that you have to know that that's going to happen. And you have to
be able to on demand, add to your test suite or your performance test suite, new types of data.
And that performance tool with where you like write Python code looks like a great way to do that. I
I actually had never used that one.
- This thing is glorious.
- Yeah.
What was it, locust.io?
- Locust.io, yeah.
And it has the dynamic sort of graphs and dashboards
show you sort of as it ramps up and as you change it.
Yeah, it's, I think that might give you like the right,
'cause you basically structure with Python
how it hammers on the server, which is pretty neat.
- Yeah, and the one thing I'd say about that was,
is you need to do that.
You will need to write custom stuff.
Don't just assume you can like add a couple indexes.
Like you should just add a couple indexes at first
if performance is not your primary concern.
But having done that, you have to know
you're gonna need to think about perf
and like write code to monitor it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, I think we're just about out of time,
although we barely scratched the surface
of all the stuff we could talk about.
Let me ask, let's close out with this question.
Do any of you have, sounds like maybe
you've thought about this, you have CI performance checks
or failures or anything like that, right?
Like we have run our tests, the build
doesn't pass if the tests don't pass,
but do you have something like that for performance?
That's the thing I want to exist, and I've never managed.
I've done things that approximate it within tests,
but never gotten it really--
I have nothing like that either.
Emily?
No, I mean, I think the closest approximation that we get is we focus a lot on
uh
Like cypress tests for front end
So actually the user going through and and working with the application and I think the closest thing that we could get at this point
is just uh setting our max timeout in our like http service
Bumping that down and saying like if anything's taking over 10 seconds to respond when we run the test then it should fail
But no, I don't think we don't do any regular performance testing.
Yeah. Henik?
We do not know.
Yeah, but we all kind of are like, that was kind of nice to have, I think.
But yeah. There's a lot to set it up though, right?
You've got to have enough data in the database for it to be meaningful.
And that's tricky to do in CI.
It would be cool though.
All right, go ahead, Emily.
I was just going to say, I think Glyph makes a really good point.
I think that's a really good point, that the load testing
and the manual testing of performance is great,
especially when it's a prerequisite to launch.
But there's no way that you're going to be able to replicate
anything in production, and the best thing that you can do
is monitor prod as closely as you can.
Yeah, absolutely. Some of that real-time monitoring.
Fantastic. All right, well, thank you all for being here.
This has been super interesting to chat about.
Before you got here, let me...
I think I'll just put it down to one of the final two
questions so that we don't take too long.
But if you're going to write some Python code,
what editor to use?
Let's go clockwise.
Henik, how about you?
What are you writing code with these days?
- Well, I have a long story of editors.
I've used almost all of them at some point.
Usually stopped using because I got crippled,
like the Emacs Pinky.
Nowadays, I usually use either Vim in a console or VS Code.
- Okay, right on.
Glyf?
There's an implicit thing in this question where it sounds like you're recommending the
thing that you use.
I want to be clear that I'm not doing that.
Don't do as I do.
Yeah, I use Emacs.
But with about 10 megabytes of custom Elisp, which I'm never going to share with anyone.
You shouldn't use it.
Just use VS Code.
Awesome.
Emily?
VS Code all day.
Okay.
I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do that.
get your experience.
Thanks so much for having us.
Thanks for having us.
Yeah, you bet.